Lead BI Analyst
Animal Friends  England, United Kingdom Remote 3 days ago  16 applicants
Full-time · Associate
201-500 employees · Insurance
See how you compare to 16 applicants. Try Premium for free
Actively recruiting

Apply

Save
Save Lead BI Analyst at Animal Friends
About the job
Role Overview

Do you have expertise in developing reports within Power BI? Do you thrive on challenging the status quo and offering new analytical solutions? If so, you might be interested in our Lead Analyst opportunity based in our Amesbury head office.

Package: Competitive salary with excellent benefits including 22 holiday days (plus your birthday off) and pet insurance discount.

Our Amesbury office has recently re-opened so there will be the opportunity to be office based, to continue to work from home or split your time between home and office.

What you`ll get up to as a Lead Analyst

As Lead Analyst you`ll be leading a small dynamic team aiming to maximise insights from available data sources supported by use of mainstream and up-to-date tools such as Azure and MS SQL Databases, Data Lake/Warehouse technology, Power BI and Office 365.

Using your technical expertise and people skills, you’ll be working closely with our Pricing, Product, and IT teams to optimise and streamline all data and reporting. You’ll also be working with these teams to help develop our technology and skillset to maximise use of Machine Learning and AI algorithms.

What we look for in you as a Lead Analyst

To have a degree in a numerical discipline or wide-ranging work-based experience
Experience and broad knowledge in data analysis
Knowledge of statistical methods and modelling techniques
Experience in developing BI reporting solutions in Power BI
Advanced SQL, and an expert of Excel and VBA
Ability to explain technical concepts to non-technical stakeholders
Desire to challenge the status quo and offer new solutions in a proactive manner
Experience of mentoring and coaching others

What Animal Friends is all about!

Animal Friends has grown to become not only an award-winning business but one of the largest pet insurance providers in the UK, looking after over 1 million pets and offering cover for cats, dogs and horses.?

A large part of our success is due to our company values which are the foundation of how we work, we are courageous by continually looking for new ways to innovate our customers experience and the pet insurance industry. We are kind-hearted with animal welfare being important to us, we donate and support over 300 charities across the UK and worldwide, to date, we have donated over £5.5 million. And we are passionate about the support we provide to our customers helping them care for their pets.

Benefits Of Working With Animal Friends

We recognise that your hard work shouldn`t come without its perks, so here`s a little list of some of the things you can expect to get from us:

22 days annual leave plus bank holidays and we give you your birthday off
95% of our employee’s own pets, we’re able to provide up to 50% off insurance along with free access to our Vet consultation app JOII
We believe looking after employees’ health is important, so we offer discount on gym membership, access to a Wellbeing hub and a health care cash plan
We like to celebrate success and recognise excellent employee performance; we will donate £3k to the charity of our employee of the quarter’s choice
Most importantly, you`ll be working within a fun, passionate and vibrant team

Animal Friends Pet Insurance Ltd is an equal opportunities employer and we welcome people of all ages, ethnicities, disabilities, religions and sexual orientations. Your application will be dealt with in the strictest of confidence.

As an FCA regulated business, we require successful applicants to clear our pre-employment screening process which includes a credit check and references checks.

Due to the current climate regarding Covid-19, all our interviews are taking place as a video interview via Zoom or Teams.

Please be aware this advert will remain open until the vacancy has been filled rather than the advertised closing date. Interviews will take place throughout this period; therefore, we encourage you to apply early to avoid disappointment.

See less
Pay range unavailable
Salary information is not available at the moment.
Are you interested in salary information for this job?

Yes
/

No
Featured benefits
Inferred from the description for this job
Medical insurance
About the company
Animal Friends company logo
Animal Friends
2,736 followers

Following
Insurance  201-500 employees  246 on LinkedIn
Animal Friends Insurance is a UK based company with over 18 years'? experience in pet insurance.

The company is staffed by a dedicated and knowledgeable team of animal lovers and Veterinary specialists, meaning you can be assured that no matter what you’re calling about, you’ll always speak to someone who cares for the welfare of your animals as much as you do.

Animal Friends pride themselves on their customer service, knowing that your loved ones have the best possible care and support when they need it most.

The company has donated over £5.6 million pounds from our own profits to animal charities worldwide to help less fortunate animals in desperate need of care, attention, shelter and sometimes just love.

With an estimated 1 in 3 pet owners needing to claim for vet treatment and approximate increase in vet’s fees of around 12% per year, as one of the UK’s fastest growing pet insurers it’s little wonder more and more people are taking out insurance with us.

So don’t delay, get your insurance quote from us right now. Either follow the link to a free online quote https://www.animalfriends.co.uk/ or talk to one of our friendly staff on 0344 55 70 300. We would love to talk to discuss any queries you have. We look forward to hearing from you.