Ofgem self-harm

AS IF energy regulator Ofgem didn't have enough to do amid an energy crisis, CEO Jonathan Brearley has found £750,000 for uber-consultancy McKinsey to tell him how to turn the organisation upside down. "We are re-setting our purpose," he told panicking staff – which may surprise parliament, which probably imagines Ofgem's purpose is defined by statute.

Oddly enough McKinsey tells him that the ideal model for Ofgem is to be turned into… a consultancy! This is not the first time it has given such self-satisfied advice: it told Enron to operate via "consultancy-like relations" with its customers, and that ended in loot and pillage.

In a classic move Ofgem management (though not those at the top, needless to say) must submit "expressions of interest" in retaining their own jobs, then undergo psychometric tests on whether they represent adequate diversity to take Ofgem forward. Morale is teetering.

There is no hint of what failings in the organisation justify such self-imposed havoc – at a time when, if Ofgem can't continue to find replacements for customers whose suppliers have gone bust (12 this year and counting), it could spell all manner of trouble for householders. This column has long criticised Ofgem's policy of granting supply licences to ramshackle two-bit tiddlers; but that decision was made at the top in Ofgem and has nothing to do with its organisation, staff, working practices or lack of diversity.

Compared to unresponsive European energy regulators, Ofgem is widely seen as flexible and competent (policy aberrations aside). Will ministers thank Brearley for the period of self-harm he seems determined to impose on his well-regarded organisation at this critical moment?


Fright Bulb

ONE issue confronting Ofgem is what happens when a really big supplier goes under.

High on the list is Bulb Energy which, amid spectacular growth over the past three years, apparently lacks the deep pockets of rival upstarts Octopus and Ovo (Eye 1506). Published accounts show how exposed Bulb could be; but under Bulb's unusual business model it fixes prices for its customers for only a few weeks before passing on wholesale prices plus a mark-up. Customers are thus already exposed to the spiking cost of wholesale energy.

If Bulb has thereby limited its risk of being caught buying high and selling low, its strategy must surely put it at risk of a customer exodus. It's hard to survive a run on the bank when confidence evaporates, particularly on one that's over-extended.